Application Catalog Documentation - Requirements - What is it - Why (#31)
vshn/application-catalog-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/reference/service-requirements.adoc

= Service Requirements and Iterations

Implementing a service is iterative work.

> The idea is to release early and release often, until the desired functionality, stability and maturity is reached.

Author: Rephrased and added more text to clarify that. What do you think about the current state now?

This page gives an idea on the iterative steps.
Except the initial version and the final version, all steps in-between can be in any order, as it fits best.

> Important is that every step already has the desired quality.

Reviewer: I'm wondering:

What about external services where we may not be able to cover all the steps? Also for converged services on the cluster. What if implementing maturity "Marbas" would be so much effort for a specific service that it may not be worth it to implement? Should we allow some leeway for each service in respect to the requirements?

Author: I've added a few sentences to incorporate this concern. What do you think about it now?

Reviewer: I would call it `desired quality` but maybe focus on the fact, that a step doesn't imply the implementation of another step. Maybe something like this:

```suggestion
Important is that every step is independent of each other. A service that implements `Abigor` doesn't necessarily already implement `Melchom `.
```

= Service Requirements and Iterations

Implementing and maintaining a service is iterative work.
The idea is to release early and release often, without having the urge to have all features available right from the beginning.

This page gives an idea on the iterative steps.
Except the initial version and the feature complete version, all steps in-between can be in any order, as it fits best.

> With "feature complete" it's not meant that the service doesn't receive new functionality or doesn't get maintained anymore, we're talking about the default scope outlined on this page.

Reviewer 2: I have a question regarding the development of the framework itself.
It's my understanding that the framework should help the services covering the iterations outlined below. By extension it means the framework must be capable of supporting these iterations, correct?
Do we know develop or choose a technology that can cover all of this from the beginning, or will there be a complex mix of various technology stack to achieve these requirements with the framework as they come up?

Author: Not sure yet, I have to think about that point...

See also:

* xref:reference/quality-requirements/usability/api-declarative.adoc[Declarative Configuration of Instances]
* xref:reference/quality-requirements/usability/api-validation.adoc[Service Instance API Validation]
* xref:reference/quality-requirements/usability/provisioning-time.adoc[Provisioning Time]

== Iteration "Bathin"

As a user of the service I can:

* Enable Backup on a service instance
* Disable Backup on a service instance
* Manually restore data for a service instance

See also:

* xref:reference/quality-requirements/portability/backup-exports.adoc[Backups Can Be Exported]
* xref:reference/quality-requirements/reliability/backup-interval.adoc[Minimum Backup Interval]

== Iteration "Settulco"

As a user of the service I can:

* Access logs of a service instance

See also:

* xref:reference/quality-requirements/usability/logs.adoc[Service Instance Logs]

== Iteration "Melchom"

As a user of the service I can:

* See metrics of a service instance
* Access a dashboard showing pre-crafted diagrams

== Iteration "Abigor"

As a user of the service I can:

* Enable alerting on pre-defined SLIs to VSHN
* See SLO reports
* Access operations runbooks

See also:

> * xref:reference/quality-requirements/usability/actionable-alerts.adoc[Actionable Alerts]

Author: Good point, I'll go over them again.
